you
this lecture is about opinion mining and
the sentiment analysis covering its
motivation in this lecture we're going
to start talking about mining a
different kind of knowledge namely not
about the observer or humans that have
generated the test data in particular
we're going to talk about the opinion
mining and sentiment analysis as we
discussed earlier taxpayer can be
regarded as the data generator from
humans as subjective senses in contrast
we have other devices such as video
recorder that can report what's
happening in the real world objectively
to generate the view data for example
now a main difference between text data
and other data like a video data is that
it has rich and rich and pinions and the
content tends to be subjective because
it's generated from humans now this is
actually a unique advantage of text data
as compared with other data because it
offers a great opportunity to understand
the observers we have mine text there
are to understand that opinions
understand the people's preferences how
people think about something so this
lecture ended following lectures will be
main about how we can mine and analyze
opinions were buried in a lot of text
data so let's start with the concept of
opinion but it's not that easy to
formally define an opinion but mostly we
would define opinion as a subjective
statement that describing what a person
believes or things about something now I
highlighted a quite a few words here and
that's because it's was thinking a
little more about these words
and that will help us balance then what
what's in that opinion and this further
helps us to define opinion more formally
which is always needed to
computationally solve the problem of
opinion mining so let's first look at
the keyword subjective here now this is
in contrast with objective statement or
factual statement those statements can
be proved a right or wrong and this is a
key differentiating factor from opinion
which tends to be not easy to prove
wrong or right because it reflects what
the person thinks about something so in
contrast objective statement can usually
be proved wrong or correct for example
you might say this computer has a screen
and a bad word now that's something you
can check it's either having a battery
or not but in contrast if you think
about the sentence such as this laptop
has the best battery or this laptop has
a nice screen and these stamens are more
subjective and it's very hard to prove
whether it's wrong or correct
so opinion is subjective statement and
next let's look at the the keyword
person here and that mean because this
opinion holder because when we talk
about opinion it's about the opinion
held by someone and then we notice that
there is something here so that's the
target of the opinion the opinion is
expressed on this something and then of
course believes all things implies that
the opinion would depend on the culture
or background and context in general
because a person might think differently
in the different context people from
different background and they also think
in Wales so this analysis shows that
there are multiple elements that we need
to improve the in order to characterize
opinion so what's a basic opinion
recommendation like well it should
include at least three amendments right
especially it has to specify what's the
opinion holder so whose opinion this
second must also specify the target
what's this opinion part and third of
course we want opinion content and so
what exactly is the opinion you can
identify these we get a basic
understanding of opinion and calorie to
be used for sometimes you want to
understand further we want to enrich the
opinion representation and that means we
also want to understand that for example
context of the pinion and what situation
was the opinion expressed for example in
what time was it expressed we also would
like to people understand the opinion
sentiment and this is to understand what
the opinion tells us about the opinion
holders feeling for example is this
opinion positive or negative or perhaps
the opinion holder it was happy or was
said and so such an understanding
obviously goes beyond just extracting
the opinion content and needs some
analysis so let's take a simple example
of a product review in this case this
actually explicit opinion holder and
express the target and so it's all it's
obviously what's the opinion holder and
that's just a reviewer and it's also
often very clear what's the opinion
targeted and that's the product in
revealed for example iPhone 6 and when
the review was posted usually you can
extract those such information easily
now the content of course is the review
text that's in general also easy to
obtain so you can see product reviews
are fairly easy to analyze in terms of
obtaining a basic opinion representation
but of course if
to get more information we might want to
know the context for example the review
was written in 2015 or we want to know
that the settlement of this review is
positive and so this additional
understanding of course adds value to
mine to mining the opinions now you can
see in this case the task is relatively
easy and that's because the opinion
holder and the opinion target that have
already been identified now let's take a
look at the sentence in the news in this
case we have implicit holder and
imprison target and the task is in
general harder so we can identify
opinion holder here and that's governor
of Connecticut we can also identify the
target so one target is hurricane sandy
but there is also another target imagina
which is a hurricane of 1938 so what's
the opinion well there's negative
sentiment here and that's indicated by
was not a bad and worst and we can also
then identify context New England in
this case now unlike in the product
review all these elements must be
extracted by using natural language
processing techniques so the task is is
much harder and we need a deeper natural
dairy processing and these examples also
suggest that a lot of work can be easily
done for product reviews and that's
indeed what has happened analyzing
settlement in news is clear quite
difficulty it's more difficulty than the
analysis of opinions in product reviews
now there are also some other
interesting variations in fact here
we're going to examine the variations of
opinions more systematically first
listing I think about the opinion holder
the holder could be a individual or
could be a group of people and sometimes
opinion was from a committee or from a
whole country
of people opinion target the council
very a lot it can be about one entity a
particular person particular act up to
the policy etc but it could be about a
group of products could be about the
products from a company in general could
also be very specific about one edge
Victor attribute of the entity for
example it's just above the battery of
iPhone it could be about someone else's
opinion and one person might comment on
another person's opinion etc so you can
see there's a lot of variation here that
will cause the problem to vary a lot
now opinion content of course can also
vary a lot on the surface you can
identify one sentence opinion or one
phrase opinion but you can also have
longer text to express their opinion
like a whole article and furthermore we
identify the variation in the sentiment
or emotion dimension that's about the
feeling of the opinion holder so we can
distinguish the positive versus negative
or neutral or happy versus sad etc and
finally the opinion context becomes a
very we have a simple context like a
different the time or different
locations but there could be also
complex texts such as some background
topical being discussed so when the
opinion expressed in the particular
discourse context it has to be
interpreted in different ways then when
it's expressed in another context so the
context can be very rich to improve the
entire discourse context of opinion from
computational perspective and we're
mostly interested in what opinions can
be extracted from text data so it turns
out that we also differentiate
distinguish you have different kinds of
opinions in texted are from computation
perspective firstly the observer might
make a comment about the opinion
targeting observe the world so in this
case we have the author's opinion for
example I don't like this form at all
and that's a opinion of this author
in contrast the text might also report
opinions about others
so the person could also make
observation about another person's
opinion and report this opinion so for
example I believe he loves the painting
and that opinion is really about is
really expressed to by another person
here so it doesn't mean this author
loves that painting
so clearly the two kinds of opinions
need to be analyzed in different ways
and sometimes in product reviews you can
see although mostly the opinions are
from this reviewer sometimes a reviewer
might managing opinions of his friend or
her friend right and another
complication is that they may be
indirect opinions or inferred opinions
that can be obtained by making
inferences on what's expressed in the
text that might not necessarily look
like opinion for example one statement
that might be this phone ran out of
battery in just one hour now this is in
a way a factual statement because you
know it's in the true or false right and
you can verify that but from this then
one can also infer some negative
opinions about the quality of the
battery of this phone or the feeling of
the opinion holder about the battery you
know the opinion holder clearly wish to
the battery to last longer so these are
interesting variations that we need to
pay attention to when we extract
opinions also for this reason about the
indirect opinions it's often also very
useful to instruct that whatever the
person has said about the product and
sometimes factual sentences like this
are also very useful so for practical
viewpoint sometimes we don't necessarily
instruct the subjective sentences
instead what you could just get all the
sentences that are about opinions that
are useful for understanding the person
or understanding the product income
and so the task of opinion mining can be
defined as taking text as input to
generate a set of opinion
representations in each representation
we should identify opinion holder target
content and context ideally we can also
infer opinion sentiment from the content
and context to better understand the
opinion now often some elements of the
replenishing are already known I just
gave a good example in the case of
product reviews where the opinion holder
and opinion target are often explicitly
identified and that's not why this turns
out to be one of the simplest opinion
mining tasks now it's interesting new
thing about the other tasks that might
be also simple because those are cases
where you can easily build applications
by using opinion mining techniques so
now that we have talked about the what
is the opinion mining and we have
defined the task let's also just talk a
little bit about the why opinion mining
is very important and why it's very
useful so here I identified three major
reasons three product reasons the first
is it can help a decision support it can
help us optimize our decisions we often
look after other people's opinions and
look at the reader reviews in order to
make a decision like a pioneer buying a
product or using a service we also would
be interesting others opinions when we
decide whom to vote for example and
policy makers may also want to know
people's opinions and when designing a
new policy so that's one general kind of
applications and it's very proud of
course the second application is to
understand people and this is also very
important and for example the helper
understand the people's preferences so
and this could help us better serve
people for example we can optimize a
product such engine optimize the
recommender system if we know what
people are interested in
what people think about products it can
also help with advertising of course and
we can have targeted advertising if we
know what kind of people tend to know to
like what kind of product
now the third kind of applications can
be called voluntary survey now this is
mostly to support a research that used
to be done by doing surveys from doing
annual surveys question answering you
know people need to fill in forms to you
know to answer some questions now this
is directly related to humans as sensors
and we can usually aggregate opinions
from a lot of documents to kind of
assess the general opinion now this
would be very useful for business
intelligence where party manufacturers
want to know where their products have
advantages over others
what are winning features of their
product or winning features of
competitive products marketing research
has to do with understanding consumers
opinions and this is clearly very useful
directed for that they don't driven
social science research you can benefit
from this because they can do text
mining to understand the people's
opinions and if you can operate a lot of
opinions from social media from a lot of
public information then you can actually
do some study of some questions for
example we can study the behavior of
people on social media on social
networks and these can be regarded as a
voluntary survey but down by those
people in general we can gain a lot of
advantage in any prediction tasks
because we can leverage the text there
are as extra there are about any problem
and so we can use text based prediction
techniques to help you make prediction
or improve the accuracy of prediction